# Wind Turbine Project
Description:
This is the first class project for our data analytics bootcamp. The contributors are Steven Sterkenburg, Luke Schumaker, Justin Moreland and Kevin Ladisheff. For this project, we are looking into Wind Turbines in the United States. Our dataset came from The US Wind Turbine Database, https://eerscmap.usgs.gov/uswtdb/. 

Code:
All code was authored by Steven, Luke, Justin and Kevin. The majority of our code came from concepts we discussed in class, as well as homework challenges. There were some challenging sections, which required us to look up syntax on the internet. We also need to credit the US Wind Turbine Database, the documentation on their API is well written and we found the examples there very useful. 

Analysis:
A summary of the U.S. Wind Turbine Database presents that there are 72731 wind turbines in the United States, and 68794 turbines for which complete data is available. Within the 68794 turbines, there are 309 different models across 55 different manufacturers. The manufactuers which have produced the most turbines are GE Wind, Vestas, Siemens, Gamesa, and Mitsubishi; and the most prevalent models are GE1.5-77, V110-2.0, GE2.82-127, SWT-2.3-108, and V82-1.65. Texas, Iowa, Oklahmona, Kansas, and California are the states that have the highest numbers of wind turbines.

Progression starting in the 1980s through the subsequent decades shows a dramatic increase in the capacities of the wind turbine as technology evolved. For example, of the wind turbines made in the 1980s the average capacity is 71.77 kW, in the 1990s turbines the average capacity is 700.07 kW, in the 2000s turbines the average capacity ins 1573.01 kW, in the 2010s turbines the average capcity is 2087.83 kW, and finally in the 2020s turbines the average capacity is 3091.8 kW. This progression in capacity reflects the changes in wind turbine design that have allowed each wind turbine to generate more power. For example a regression indicates that the rotor diameter across all turbines in the complete data set increases by 1 meter for each increase in capacity 28.01 kW. Two linear regressions further reveal that each time turbine capacity increases by 42.56kW the height increases by 1 meter, and the rotor diameter increases by 3.3 meters each year. The average capacity is similar across the top 5 manufacturers.

Finally utilizing an API and the latitudes and longitudes provided from the data we were able to plot the locations of the wind turbines in the top states. States such as Iowa and Oklahoma have ideal locations for windfarms due to the many flat, open plains with abundant wind from climate and minimal obstructions. Comparing the plain states of Oklahoma, Texas, and Iowa to more mountainous states such as California and Arizona reveals that wind turbines are able to be spread out more evenly throughout the entire region in the plain states, whereas in California and Arizona, the wind turbines are currently limited to isolated pockets likely due to varying climatic regions and mountainous obstructions in those states.

